# The Great Illusion of War
***
#### By Ryan M., 1/28/2015

1. Angell believes that war should not happen because the cost would outweigh the reward. His argument is that war, and the annexation of territory, no longer helps that country economically. His prediction was that if war broke out, like it did, it would never end. He was right.  
He also believed that there was no one that would be mad enough to start a war, because of the potential for loss of life. Someone did start the war, even if people were not eating sandwiches when it happened. He thought that all people would be logical, and therefore not be illogical and start a war. His final conclusion that a war started would not stop, causing massive loss of life, property and money.

2. Yes. The number of casualties in the Iraq war is disputed, but all estimates are above 100,000 and at least two studies have estimated over 600,000 casualties as a direct or indirect result of the war. The war was started (according to George W. Bush) because of the perceived possession of Weapons of Mass Destruction by the Saddam Hussein government. Likewise, the Austro-Hungarian government declared war on Serbia because of the perceived association of Gavrilo Princip to the Serbian government. If Angell's argument was applied to the present day, that war would not have happened.  
This argument could be applied to the current state of relations between Russia, China, Ukraine, and the USA. China exported $426.1 billion, and imported $111.8 billion to and from the USA, second only to Canada in 2014 to November. (http://www.census.gov/foreign-trade/statistics/highlights/top/top1411yr.html) If such a relationship were broken, over $600 billion in trade would be lost! Russia and the USA trade much less, and even less now that the sanctions exist, but still the USA imports $22 billion per year, and exports $10 billion per year. (http://www.census.gov/foreign-trade/balance/c4621.html) Both China and the USA would lose most of their wealth if they went to war. Also, due to Russia, China and the USA all having nuclear power, a war between any of them would likely result in mutually assured destruction.